3/5/2024

Progress
  Showed dashboard to client and am making adjustments based off feedback. Was able to get reports that go back to 2019. Reworked the dashboard to account for those. For analysis portion decided
  to look at cancelations and those who come back year over year. I've done some basic summary statistics on this.  

Problems
  Using the combined reports there are a difference in numbers from the static ones. I believe this maybe do to things like people canceling mid year which would update the database but not a
  report pulled in months prior which is what they were using

Plans
  work on analysis and start writing the engineering portion of the paper(most likely outline) Make minor corrections to the dashboard. 

I worked about 10 hours this week on the project. 



2/24/2024

Progress
  I've made a lot of progress in reformatting and using SharePoint for the dashboard. I just have a few more kinks to work out.

Problems
  Still waiting to hear back on the analysis portion of the capstone. If I don't hear anything by this coming weekend, I will start my backup plan

Plans
  I am meeting with the client on Wednesday to go over the dashboard, and I will make suggested changes from there.

I've worked about 10-12 hours this week on it. 





2/20/2024

Progress
  Finished the dashboard and almost finished Excel that will be used to upload to Power BI. Will need to meet with Melissa to discuss which would be easier for her.
  Either using the Excel document or using some of the limitations that come with Power BI.

Problems
  I haven't started the analytics portion. From a brief analysis, I don't know if I have the ability to forecast the number of housing needed based on the data I have. As it's
  basically forecasting incoming freshmen. I could maybe build a model that predicts the number of none first-year students who choose to live in student housing.

Plans
  I have a meeting with Melissa and another housing employee who have some different analytics they may want me to focus on. Which is housing student retention and 
  if living in a specific type of housing has an effect on student success. 

I worked about 10 hours this week





2/13/2024

Progress
  I've made more progress on making an Excel file that builds out what she needs for the reports. I'm still investigating ways to have a more complete database
  in Power BI. I have a meeting with her this Thursday. I also tried to figure out which type of model would be best for forecasting. It looks like it would be EWMA.

Problems
  Excel doesn't feel like the most efficient tool, as it requires the client to drop the report in, but currently, it's the best I've got. The major hiccup for me 
  right now, they use a different format for weeks 1-34, which they usually calculated manually; trying to automate it in Excel or BI has been hard to accomplish

Plans
  I still haven't started working on the forecasting model; hopefully, I will start that this coming week.
  I spent 6 hours this week working on the project.

2/06/2024

Progress
  I've made some progress in designing a new Excel document for the client to drop her reports into. That will build the needed tables 
  for the dashboard automatically.

Problems 
  I have not found a way to download the entire database to put in SharePoint. Depending on the size, this could be an issue because 
  it would need to be refreshed every week as they get new applications. 

Plans
  Finish the Excel document and the dashboard. Begin planning out a forecasting model. 

I spent about 7 hours this week working on the project. 



1/30/2024

Progress:
  I've made a replication of the report missing a few item that I need to code. I also learned how to pull and make reports in the dataware housing software. 
  I need to ask Melissa on some tips as sometimes it doesn't work for me.

Problems:
  Currently my problems have been more conceptual. Is kinda hard to plan system if you don't know what the client wants. Especially from my brief research you maybe able to connect power bi directly to starrez
  which would limit the coding needed. Outside of forecasting it honestly maybe more inline with what she's looking for to have a live data connection to excel
  Finally I may be missing data to make an accurate model for forecasting based on the base reports the only predictors I have are previous year applications 
  and some basic identifiers such as age and place of residence. 

Plans:
  Now and next week I would hope to build a finished dashboard that Melissa wants after getting feedback from her. Research more about connecting starrez to power bi, begin building a 
  forecasting model either from the data I have access to or see if I'm able to get some more. 

  I spent about 8 hours this week working on the project. 
